Rs/logging feature (#129)
neuralmagic/docs: src/content/user-guide/deepsparse-engine/logging.mdx

---
title: "Logging"
metaTitle: "DeepSparse Logging"
metaDescription: "System and Data Logging with DeepSparse"
index: 6000
---

# DeepSparse Logging

DeepSparse Logging provides you with access to telemetry needed to monitor a deployment. 

> There are many types of downstream monitoring tasks that you may want to perform. The difficulty of the tasks varies from relatively easy 

Reviewer: what do we mean by "downstream" here?

(simple system performance analysis) to challenging (assessing the accuracy of the system in the wild by manually labeling 

> the input data distribution post-facto). Examples include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the input data distribution post-factum). Examples include:
```

- System performance: what is the latency/throughput of a query?

> - Data quality: is there an issue getting data to my model?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data quality: is the model being fed the expected data distribution?
```

Author: Data quality is about detecting errors in the data pipeline. For instance, detecting if the camera is broken and as a result you are getting all 0's. Vs data distribution is slightly different and we have a separate bullet for that

- Data distribution shift: does the input data distribution deviates over time to the point where the model stops to deliver reliable predictions?
- Model accuracy: what is the percentage of correct predictions that a model achieves?

DeepSparse Logging is designed to provide maximum flexibility for you to extract whatever data is needed from a 
production inference pipeline into the logging system of your choice. 

## Metrics 
DeepSparse Logging provides access to two types of metrics.

### System Logging Metrics 

System Logging Metrics give you access to granular performance metrics for quick and efficient diagnosis of deployment system health.

> There is one group of System Logging Metrics currently available: Prediction Latency.  For each inference request, DeepSparse logs the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is one group of System Logging Metrics currently available: Inference Latency. For each inference request, the DeepSparse Server logs the following:
```

> 1. Pre-processing Time - milliseconds in the pre-processing step

Reviewer: in all cases, the units are seconds, not miliseconds

2. Engine Time - milliseconds in the engine forward pass step
3. Post-processing Time - milliseconds in the post-processing step

> 4. Total Time - milliseconds for the end-to-end response time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Total Time - milliseconds for the end-to-end response time (the sum of the first three measurements)
```

### Data Logging Metrics

Data Logging Metrics give ML teams access to data at each stage of an inference pipeline. 
This facilitates inspection of the data, understanding of its properties, detecting edge cases and possible data drift.

There are 4 stages in the inference pipeline where Data Logging can occur:
1. `pipeline_inputs`: raw input passed to the inference pipeline by the user

> 2. `engine_inputs`: pre-processed tensors passed to the engine for the forward passed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `engine_inputs`: pre-processed tensors passed to the engine for the forward pass
```

3. `engine_outputs`: result of the engine forward pass (e.g. the raw logits)

> 4. `pipeline_outputs`: raw output returned to the pipeline caller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. `pipeline_outputs`: final output returned to the pipeline caller
```

> At each stage, you can specify functions to be applied to the data before Logging. Examples functions include the identity function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At each stage, you can specify functions to be applied to the data before logging. Example functions include the identity function
```

(for logging the raw input/output), the mean function (e.g. for monitoring the mean pixel value of an image), or a count function (e.g.
for monitoring the number of unknown tokens in an NLP pipeline).

There are three types of functions that can be applied to target data at each stage:
1. Built-in functions - pre-written functions provided by DeepSparse ([see list on GitHub](https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/blob/main/src/deepsparse/loggers/metric_functions/built_ins.py)) 
2. Framework Functions - functions from `torch` or `numpy` (e.g. `torch.mean`, `np.mean`)
3. Custom Functions - custom user-provided functions with dynamic imports

## Configuration

A YAML file is used to configure both System and Data Logging.

> - **System Logging** is *enabled* if a `logger` is specified

Reviewer: Right now the default behavior is, that even if the `logger` is not specified, the default logger gets created ( a single PythonLogger)

- **Data Logging** is *disabled* by default. The config allows you to specify what data to log

The YAML file has the following form:

```yaml
loggers:
  logger_name1:
  logger_name2:
    arg1: 6100                    
    
data_logging:
  # either specify the pipeline stage ... 
  stage:
    - func: built_in_fn_name
      frequency: 1000
      target_loggers:
        - logger_name1
  
  # ... or a property of the data at a pipeline stage ...
  stage.target:
    - func: torch.fn_name
      frequency: 1000
      target_loggers:
        - logger_name2

  # ... or a slice/dict access to a target
  stage.target[idx]:
    - func: np.fn_name        
      frequency: 1000          
    - func: path/to/custom.py:bar  
      frequency: 10000
      # if no target_loggers, defaults to all
```

Let's break it down piece by piece:

- `loggers` is a dictionary of the form `{logger_name: {config}}` and identifies and provides the arguments for each logger.

> - `data_logging` is a dictionary of the form `{stage.target[idx]: [fn_config]}`. 

Reviewer: I don't get this

For each item, you can provide a list of function configs tha specify which function to apply.

- `stage.target[idx]` specifies if data at a particular `stage` should be logged. If the data at a particular `stage` has
properties, an optional `target` can be used to unpack the data. If the `target` is a dict or a list, 
you can access via slicing, indexing, or dict access, for example `stage.target[0:2][0, :-1]['key_3'][5]`.

- `[fn_config]` is list of function configurations of the form `{func: name, frequency: freq, target_loggers: [logger_names]}`. 
It specifies which the function, the logger, and the frequency of the logging.

<details>
  <summary>Click for a tangible example for an image classification endpoint.</summary>

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Should we add those doc examples also as items for the QA to test?

loggers:
  python:         # logs to stdout
  prometheus:     # logs to prometheus on port 6100
    port: 6100

endpoints:
  - task: image_classification
    route: /image_classification/predict
    model: zoo:cv/classification/resnet_v1-50/pytorch/sparseml/imagenet/pruned95_quant-none
    name: image_classification_pipeline
    data_logging:
      pipeline_inputs.images:   # applies to the images (of the form stage.target:)
        - func: np.shape        # framework function
          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - python          

      pipeline_inputs.images[0]:          # applies to the first image (of the form stage.target[idx]:)

>         - func: mean_pixels_per_channel   # built-in function

Reviewer: This fails as expected, the function outputs a triple and prometheus does not log triples, only ints/floats

          frequency: 2
          target_loggers:
            - prometheus        
        - func: fraction_zeros  # built-in function
          frequency: 2
          target_loggers:
            - prometheus
      
      engine_inputs:            # applies to the engine_inputs data (of the form stage:)
        - func: identity        # built-in function
          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - python
        - func: np.shape        # framework function
          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - python
```

This configuration does the following data logging at each respective stage of the pipeline:

> - System logging is enabled by default and logs to Prometheus

Reviewer: We are explicitly enabling both Prometheus and Python logger no?

> - Logs the shape of the input batch provided by the user to stdout

Reviewer: I like that breakdown.

- Logs the mean pixels and % of 0 pixels of the first image in the batch to Prometheus
- Logs the raw data and shape of the input passed to the engine
- No logging occurs at any other pipeline stages

</details>

## Loggers

DeepSparse Logging includes options to log to Standard Output and to Prometheus out of the box as well as 
the ability to create a Custom Logger.

### Python Logger

Python Logger logs data to Standard Output. It is useful for debugging and inspecting an inference pipeline. It
accepts no arguments and is configured with the following:

```yaml
loggers:
  python:
```

### Prometheus Logger

> DeepSparse is integrated with Prometheus. The Prometheus Logger accepts an optional `port` property 

Reviewer: Not only port,  there are more arguments that PrometheusLogger can take.

    arg1: your_argument_1
```

See [our Prometheus logger implementation](https://github.com/neuralmagic/deepsparse/blob/main/src/deepsparse/loggers/prometheus_logger.py)
for inspiration on implementing a logger.

## Usage 

DeepSparse Logging is currently supported for usage with DeepSparse Server. 

Stay tuned for usage with Pipelines in our next release!

### Server Usage

The Server startup CLI command accepts a YAML configuration file (which contains both logging-specific and general 
configuration details) via the `--config-file` argument.

```bash
deepsparse.server --config-file server-config.yaml
```

Data Logging is configured at the endpoint level. In the example below, we create a Server with two Endpoints
(one for image classification and one for sentiment analysis):

```yaml
loggers:
  prometheus:
    port: 6100
  python:
 
endpoints:
  - task: image_classification
    route: /image_classification/predict
    model: zoo:cv/classification/resnet_v1-50/pytorch/sparseml/imagenet/pruned95_quant-none
    name: image_classification_pipeline
    data_logging:
      pipeline_inputs.images:
        - func:
          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - python

>       pipeline_inputs.images[0]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      pipeline_inputs.images[0]:
```

>         - func: max_pixels_per_channel

Reviewer: will fail with prometheus

          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - prometheus

>         - func: mean_pixels_per_channel

Reviewer: will fail with prometheus

          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - prometheus
        - func: fraction_zeros
          frequency: 1
          target_loggers:
            - prometheus
      
      pipeline_outputs.scores[0]:
        - func: identity
          frequency: 1
      
      pipeline_outputs.labels[0]:
        - func: identity
          frequency: 1

>   - task: sentiment/analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - task: sentiment_analysis
```
